---
layout: archive
title: "CV"
permalink: /CV2023/
author_profile: true
redirect_from:
  - /resume
---

# Education

**Ph.D. Applied Mathematics (expected July 2023)**\
University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona. Dissertation: *Spectral
Estimation by Iterated Whitening*. Advisor: Kevin Lin.

**M.S. Applied Mathematics**\
University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona. May 2018. Advisor: Kevin Lin.

**M.S. Mathematics**\
Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah. August 2016. Thesis: *Steady
State Configurations of Cells Connected by Cadherin Sites*. Advisor:
John Dallon.

**B.S. Mathematics and Mathematics Education**\
Brigham Young University. April 2012.

# Employment

**Mathematics Department, UA**, Tucson, Arizona\
*Instructor* 2023 - present

**Mathematics Department, UA**, Tucson, Arizona\
*Graduate Teaching Assistant* 2016 - 2022

**Chemistry & Biochemistry Department, UA**, Tucson, Arizona\
*GRE Preparation Math Tutor* for the Maximizing Access to Research
Careers (MARC) Program 2016

**Mathematics Department, BYU**, Provo, Utah\
*Research Assistant* to Dr. J. Humphreys 2015 - 2016\
Proofread several chapters of *Foundations of Applied Mathematics,
Volume I: Mathematical Analysis*

**Mathematics Department, BYU**, Provo, Utah\
*Graduate Teaching Assistant* 2014 - 2016

**Utah Valley University**, Orem, Utah\
*Assistant Coordinator* in the Mathematics Tutorial Lab 2013 - 2014

**Vernal Junior High**, Vernal, Utah\
*Math Teacher* (8th grade) 2012 - 2013

# Teaching

*All course were taught in the capacity of a (supervised) primary
instructor. Totaling 23 courses (60 units) as instructor of record.*

### Department of Mathematics, University of Arizona

(Fall 2016 - present)

|*Semester* | *Course*| *Units* |
|:---:|:---|----|
|Spring 2023 | Math 116:  Business Calculus | 3 ($\times 2$)|
|Spring 2022 | Math 196V:  Vector Calculus Supplement | 1 |
|Fall 2021 | Math 196V:  Vector Calculus Supplement | 1 |
|Spring 2021 | Math 129:  Second Semester Calculus | 3 |
|Fall 2020 | Math 122B: First Semester Calculus | 4 |
|Spring 2020 | Math 122A: Functions of Calculus| 1 ($\times 2$)|
|Fall 2019 | Math 122A: Functions of Calculus| 1  ($\times 2$)|
|Spring 2019 | Math 122A: Functions of Calculus| 1  ($\times 2$)|
|Fall 2018 | Math 120R: Precalculus| 4 |
|Summer 2018 | Math 116: Business Calculus (online)| 3 |
|Spring 2018 | Math 116: Business Calculus| 3 |
|Fall 2017 | Math 120R:  Precalculus| 4 |
|Spring 2017 | Math 116:  Business Calculus | 3 |
|Fall 2016 | Math 112:  College Algebra| 3  ($\times 2$)|

### Department of Mathematics, Brigham Young University

(Spring 2014 - Summer 2015)

|*Semester* | *Course*| *Units* |
|:---:|:---|----|
|Fall 2015 | Math 110:  College Algebra| 3 |
|Summer 2015 | Math 112:  Calculus I| 4 |
|Winter 2015 | Math 102:  Quantitative Reasoning| 3 |
|Fall 2014   | Math 110:  College Algebra| 3 |
|Spring 2014 | Math 102:  Quantitative Reasoning| 3 |

## Teaching Assistant

*In all courses I assisted the instructor in varying capacities ranging
from grading, holding office hours, holding problem sessions, etc.*

### Department of Mathematics, University of Arizona

(Fall 2018 - Spring 2022)

|*Semester* | *Course* | *Instructor* |
|:---:|:---:|:---:|
|Spring 2022 | Math 485: Intro to Mathematical Modeling | Joceline Lega |
|Spring 2022 | Math 584B: Principles of Analysis | Shankar Venkataramani |
|Fall 2021 | Math 584A: Principles of Analysis | Shankar Venkataramani |
|Spring 2021 | Math 527B: Principles of Analysis | Shankar Venkataramani|
|Fall 2020 | Math 527A: Principles of Analysis | Shankar Venkataramani|
|Spring 2020 | Math 527B: Principles of Analysis | Shankar Venkataramani|
|Fall 2019 | Math 527A:  Principles of Analysis | Shankar Venkataramani|
|Summer 2019 | Co-facillated program sponsored qualifying exam prep course ||
|Spring 2019 | Math 527B: Principles of Analysis | Leonid Friedlander|
|Summer 2018 | Co-facillated program sponsored qualifying exam prep course ||
|Fall 2018 | Math 527A: Principles of Analysis | Leonid Friedlander|


## Course Development

**Mathematical Modeling** *(University of Arizona Math 485, senior level
project-based course mathematical modeling)*\
I assisted Dr. Joceline Lega in converting the course to an
asynchronous, fully online format. My principle task was to use Manim (a
Python package for programmatic mathematical animation) to create
animation to improve the accessibility of the interactive video
presentations.

# Mentoring

### Department of Mathematics, University of Arizona

-   As part of the **UA RTG-REU** 2021 summer program and again in
    summer 2022 (both organized by Dr. Kevin Lin and Dr. Laura Miller),
    I mentered a total of three undergraduate researchers
    -   David Parra
    -   Benjamin Shearer
    -   Darianne Sanchez

-   I mentored three **undergraduate research groups** as part of a
    senior level modeling course.
    -   Spring 2022. Students: Daniel Peck, Aliyah Postell, Marc Bulau,
        Khaled Ali, Katie Fitts
    -   Spring 2020. Students: Sean Raglow, Gordon Downs, Wes Johnson,
        Ryan Lewis
    -   Spring 2018. Students: Haoliang Shi, Xiaoyu Shi, Haozhe Xu,
        Ziwei Yu

-   As part of the **Graduate Student Mentor Program** I mentored three
    students
    -   John Park
    -   Florence Dungan
    -   Jalen Cates

# Service

-   Graduate representative on the undergraduate committee for the
    University of Arizona Mathematics Department (2022 - present).

# Research Interests

General: Data-driven model reduction, signals and systems theory,
stochastic models and stochastic differential equations, power
distribution systems with renewable energy sources, smart grids, cell
movement, urban traffic.

Current projects: Applying classical signal processing theory to
data-driven model reduction, power spectrum estimation, Model reduction
for power systems networks, and modeling movement of the slime mold
*Dictyostelium discoideum*.

# Publications

Jared McBride and Kevin K Lin, *A comparison of spectral estimation
methods for the analysis of chaotic and stochastic dynamical systems*.
In preparation, 2023.

Darin J Law, Jason P Field, Luke A Wilson, Mallory F Barnes, David D
Breshears, Jared McBride, Greg A Barron-Gafford, Angelina
Martínez-Yrízar, Alberto Búrquez, and Enriquena Bustamante Ortega.
*Heatwave compounded warmer drought: Shifts in time to tree mortality
and tree mortality duration.* In preparation, 2023.

# Conferences

**Third Symposium on Machine Learning and Dynamical Systems**, September
26 - 30, 2022, The Fields Institute, Toronto, Canada\
Presented poster: *A comparison of spectral estimation methods for the
analysis of chaotic and stochastic dynamical systems*

# Volunteer Community Involvement

**Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints** Full-time Missionary.
Manchester, England, 2007-2009

**Central Utah STEM Fair** Judge. Provo, Utah, 2014

**ACCESS** (BYU big brother/big sister program) big brother volunteer.
Provo, Utah, 2014

$\pi$**-Day** volunteer. Provo, Utah, 2014-2016

**S.Y.STEM Coalition Science Day** volunteer. Tucson, Arizona, 2016

**S.Y.STEM Coalition Summer Robotics Camp** facilitator assistant.
Tucson, Arizona, 2019

**Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints** recent involvement in
local congregation (ward). Tucson, Arizona,

-   Nursery Leader 2016 - 2017

-   Sunday School leadership 2017 - 2018

-   Men's organization (Elders Quorum) leadership 2018

-   Ward Mission Leader 2018-2019

-   Assistant Ward Clerk (Membership) 2019 - present

# Skills

Git, Julia, Python, Manim (Python package for programmatic mathematical
animation).
