---
layout: archive
title: "CV"
permalink: /CV2022/
author_profile: true
redirect_from:
  - /resume
---

## Education
**Ph.D. Applied Mathematics (expected
July 2023)**, University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona.
Advisor: Kevin Lin.

**M.S. Applied Mathematics**, University of Arizona,
Tucson, Arizona. May 2018. Advisor: Kevin Lin.

**M.S. Mathematics**, Brigham Young University, Provo,
Utah, August 2016. Thesis: *Steady State Configurations of Cells
Connected by Cadherin Sites*, Advisor: John Dallon.

**B.S. Mathematics and Mathematics Education**, Brigham Young University, April 2012.

## Employment

**Mathematics Department, UA**, Tucson, Arizona. Teaching
Assistant. 2016-present.

**Chemistry & Biochemistry Department, UA**, Tucson,
Arizona. Maximizing Access to Research Careers (MARC) Program GRE
Preparation Math Tutor. 2016.

**Mathematics Department, BYU**, Provo, Utah. Research
Assistant to Dr. J. Humphreys. 2015-2016. Proofread several chapters of
*Foundations of Applied Mathematics, Volume I: Mathematical
Analysis.*

**Mathematics Department, BYU**, Provo, Utah. Graduate
Teaching Assistant 2014-2016

**Utah Valley University**, Orem, Utah. Mathematics
Tutorial Lab Assistance Coordinator. 2013-2014

**Vernal Junior High**, Vernal, Utah. Math Teacher (8th
grade), 2012-2013.

## Teaching
*All course were taught in the capacity of a (supervised) primary instructor. Totaling 18 courses (48 units) as instructor of record.*  

Department of Mathematics, University of Arizona

(Fall 2016 - present)

|*Semester* | *Course*| *Units* |
|:---:|:---|----|
|Spring 2022 | Math 196V:  Vector Calculus Supplement | 1 |
|Fall 2021 | Math 196V:  Vector Calculus Supplement | 1 |
|Spring 2021 | Math 129:  Second Semester Calculus | 3 |
|Fall 2020 | Math 122B: First Semester Calculus | 4 |
|Spring 2020 | Math 122A: Functions of Calculus| 1 |
|Fall 2019 | Math 122A: Functions of Calculus| 1 |
|Spring 2019 | Math 122A: Functions of Calculus| 1 |
|Fall 2018 | Math 120R: Precalculus| 4 |
|Summer 2018 | Math 116: Business Calculus (online)| 3 |
|Spring 2018 | Math 116: Business Calculus| 3 |
|Fall 2017 | Math 120R:  Precalculus| 4 |
|Spring 2017 | Math 116:  Business Calculus | 3 |
|Fall 2016 | Math 112:  College Algebra| 3 |

### Department of Mathematics, Brigham Young University
(Spring 2014 - Summer 2015)

|*Semester* | *Course*| *Units* |
|:---:|:---|----|
|Fall 2015 | Math 110:  College Algebra| 3 |
|Summer 2015 | Math 112:  Calculus I| 4 |
|Winter 2015 | Math 102:  Quantitative Reasoning| 3 |
|Fall 2014   | Math 110:  College Algebra| 3 |
|Spring 2014 | Math 102:  Quantitative Reasoning| 3 |

## Teaching Assistant



*In all courses I assisted the instructor in varying capacities ranging from grading, holding office hours, holding problem sessions, etc.*

### Department of Mathematics, University of Arizona
(Fall 2016 - present)

|*Semester* | *Course* | *Instructor* |
|:---:|:---:|:---:|
|Spring 2022 | Math 485: Intro to Mathematical Modeling | Joceline Lega |
|Spring 2022 | Math 584B: Principles of Analysis | Shankar Venkataramani |
|Fall 2021 | Math 584A: Principles of Analysis | Shankar Venkataramani |
|Spring 2021 | Math 527B: Principles of Analysis | Shankar Venkataramani|
|Fall 2020 | Math 527A: Principles of Analysis | Shankar Venkataramani|
|Spring 2020 | Math 527B: Principles of Analysis | Shankar Venkataramani|
|Fall 2019 | Math 527A:  Principles of Analysis | Shankar Venkataramani|
|Summer 2019 | Co-facillated program sponsored qualifying exam prep course ||
|Spring 2019 | Math 527B: Principles of Analysis | Leonid Friedlander|
|Summer 2018 | Co-facillated program sponsored qualifying exam prep course ||
|Fall 2018 | Math 527A: Principles of Analysis | Leonid Friedlander|

## Course Development

* **Mathematical Modeling ** *(University of Arizona Math 485, senior level project-based course mathematical modeling)*  

  I assisted Dr. Joselyn Lega in converting the course to an asynchronous, fully online format. My principle task was to use Manim (a Python package for programatic mathematic animation) to create animation to improve the accessibility of the interactive video presentations.

## Mentoring
### Department of Mathematics, University of Arizona

- As part of the **UA RTG-REU** 2021 summer program and again in summer 2022 (both organized by Dr. Kevin Lin and Dr. Laura Miller), I mentered a total of three undergraduate researchers
  - David Parra
  - Benjamin Shearer
  - Darianne Sanchez
-   I mentored three **Undergraduate research group** as part
    of a senior level modeling course.
    -   Spring 2022. Students: Daniel Peck, Aliyah Postell, Marc Bulau, Khaled Ali, Katie Fitts
    -   Spring 2020. Students: Sean Raglow, Gordon Downs, Wes Johnson,
        Ryan Lewis
    -   Spring 2018. Students: Haoliang Shi, Xiaoyu Shi, Haozhe Xu,
        Ziwei Yu
-   As part of the **Graduate Student Mentor Program** I
    mentored three students
    - John Park
    - Florence Dungan
    - Jalen Cates

## Service

* Graduate representative on the undergraduate committee for the University of Arizona Mathematics Department.  

## Research Interests

General: Data-driven model reduction, signals and systems theory, Stochastic models and stochastic differential equations, power distribution systems with renewable energy sources, smart grids, cell movement, urban traffic.

Current projects: Applying classical signal processing theory to data-driven model reduction, power spectrum estimation, Model reduction for power systems networks, and modeling movement of the slime mold *Dictyostelium discoideum*.



## Publications

*(In preparation)*

Kevin K. Lin and Jared McBride, _A comparison of spectral estimation methods for the analysis of chaotic and stochastic dynamical systems_, In preparation, 2022.



## Conferences

**Third Symposium on Machine Learning and Dynamical Systems**, September 26 - 30, 2022, The Fields Institute, Toronto, Canada

- Presented poster: *A comparison of spectral estimation methods for the analysis of chaotic and stochastic dynamical systems*



## Volunteer Community Involvement

ACCESS - BYU big brother/big sister program 2014

S.Y.Stem Coalition Science Day volunteer 2016

Pi day volunteer 2014-2016

## Skills

Git, Julia, Python, Manim (Python package for programmatic mathematical animation).
