---
layout: archive
title: "CV"
permalink: /CV2025/
author_profile: true
redirect_from:
  - /resume
---

# Education {#education .unnumbered}

**Ph.D. Applied Mathematics** University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona.
August 2023.\
Graduate minor in **Systems and Industrial Engineering**.\
Dissertation: *The Estimation of High-contrast Spectra via Iterated
Whitening*.\
Advisor: Kevin Lin.

**M.S. Applied Mathematics** University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona. May
2018.\
Advisor: Kevin Lin.

**M.S. Mathematics** Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah. August
2016.\
Thesis: *Steady State Configurations of Cells Connected by Cadherin
Sites*.\
Advisor: John Dallon.

**B.S. Mathematics and Mathematics Education** Brigham Young University.
April 2012.

# Employment {#employment .unnumbered}

**Southern Virginia University**, Buena Vista, Virginia *Assistant
Professor of Math* 2023 - present

**Mathematics Department, UA**, Tucson, Arizona *Instructor* 2023

**Mathematics Department, UA**, Tucson, Arizona *Graduate Teaching
Assistant* 2016 - 2022

**Chemistry & Biochemistry Department, UA**, Tucson, Arizona *GRE
Preparation Math Tutor* for the Maximizing Access to Research Careers
(MARC) Program 2016

**Mathematics Department, BYU**, Provo, Utah *Research Assistant* to Dr.
J. Humphreys 2015 - 2016 Proofread several chapters of *Foundations of
Applied Mathematics, Volume I: Mathematical Analysis*

**Mathematics Department, BYU**, Provo, Utah *Graduate Teaching
Assistant* 2014 - 2016

**Utah Valley University**, Orem, Utah *Assistant Coordinator* in the
Mathematics Tutorial Lab 2013 - 2014

**Vernal Junior High**, Vernal, Utah *Math Teacher* (8th grade) 2012 -
2013

# Teaching {#teaching .unnumbered}

## Southern Virginia University {#southern-virginia-university .unnumbered}

(August 2023 - present)

  **Semester**   **Course**                                    **Units**
  -------------- --------------------------------------------- --------------
  Fall 2025      CSC 340: Artificial Intelligence              
  Fall 2025      MAT 343: Linear Algebra                       
  Fall 2025      MAT 221: Statistics                           ($\times 2$)
  Fall 2025      MAT 115: College Algebra                      
  Summer 2025    MAT 221: Statistics                           
  Spring 2025    CSC 333: Computational Data Science           
  Spring 2025    MAT 498: Mathematics Capstone                 
  Spring 2025    MAT 221: Statistics                           ($\times 3$)
  Fall 2024      MAT 341: Real Analysis                        
  Fall 2024      MAT 343: Linear Algebra                       
  Fall 2024      MAT 221: Statistics                           ($\times 3$)
  Spring 2024    MAT 410: Introduction to Numerical Analysis   
  Spring 2024    MAT 341: Calculus III                         
  Spring 2024    MAT 221: Statistics                           ($\times 2$)
  Spring 2024    MAT 116: Trigonometry                         
  Spring 2024    MAT 115: College Algebra                      
  Fall 2023      MAT 343: Linear Algebra                       
  Fall 2023      MAT 221: Statistics                           ($\times 2$)
  Fall 2023      MAT 115: College Algebra                      

## Department of Mathematics, University of Arizona {#department-of-mathematics-university-of-arizona .unnumbered}

(Fall 2016 - Spring 2023)

  **Semester**   **Course**                              **Units**
  -------------- --------------------------------------- --------------
  Spring 2023    Math 116: Business Calculus             ($\times 2$)
  Spring 2022    Math 196V: Vector Calculus Supplement   
  Fall 2021      Math 196V: Vector Calculus Supplement   
  Spring 2021    Math 129: Second Semester Calculus      
  Fall 2020      Math 122B: First Semester Calculus      
  Spring 2020    Math 122A: Functions of Calculus        ($\times 2$)
  Fall 2019      Math 122A: Functions of Calculus        ($\times 2$)
  Spring 2019    Math 122A: Functions of Calculus        ($\times 2$)
  Fall 2018      Math 120R: Precalculus                  
  Summer 2018    Math 116: Business Calculus (online)    
  Spring 2018    Math 116: Business Calculus             
  Fall 2017      Math 120R: Precalculus                  
  Spring 2017    Math 116: Business Calculus             
  Fall 2016      Math 112: College Algebra               ($\times 2$)

## Department of Mathematics, Brigham Young University {#department-of-mathematics-brigham-young-university .unnumbered}

(Spring 2014 - Summer 2015)

  **Semester**   **Course**                         **Units**
  -------------- ---------------------------------- -----------
  Fall 2015      Math 110: College Algebra          
  Summer 2015    Math 112: Calculus I               
  Winter 2015    Math 102: Quantitative Reasoning   
  Fall 2014      Math 110: College Algebra          
  Spring 2014    Math 102: Quantitative Reasoning   

## Teaching Assistant {#teaching-assistant .unnumbered}

*In all courses I assisted the instructor in varying capacities ranging
from grading, holding office hours, holding problem sessions, etc.*

### Department of Mathematics, University of Arizona {#department-of-mathematics-university-of-arizona-1 .unnumbered}

(Fall 2018 - Spring 2022)

  **Semester**   **Course**                                                     **Instructor**
  -------------- -------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Spring 2022    Math 485: Intro to Mathematical Modeling                       Joceline Lega
  Spring 2022    Math 584B: Principles of Analysis                              Shankar Venkataramani
  Fall 2021      Math 584A: Principles of Analysis                              Shankar Venkataramani
  Spring 2021    Math 527B: Principles of Analysis                              Shankar Venkataramani
  Fall 2020      Math 527A: Principles of Analysis                              Shankar Venkataramani
  Spring 2020    Math 527B: Principles of Analysis                              Shankar Venkataramani
  Fall 2019      Math 527A: Principles of Analysis                              Shankar Venkataramani
  Summer 2019    Co-facilitated program sponsored qualifying exam prep course   
  Spring 2019    Math 527B: Principles of Analysis                              Leonid Friedlander
  Summer 2018    Co-facilitated program sponsored qualifying exam prep course   
  Fall 2018      Math 527A: Principles of Analysis                              Leonid Friedlander

## Course Development {#course-development .unnumbered}

**Artificial Intelligence** (*Southern Virginia University CSC 340,
upper division computer science course artificial intelligence*) I
developed the curriculum to focus on developing deep conceptual
understanding of neural networks (including backpropagation) as well as
implementation of these concepts in Python using libraries. Though it
spends most of the time looking at supervised learning, unsupervised
learning (PCA and $k$-means) as well as some reinforcement learning is
also discussed. The course also includes a significant ethics component.

**Computational Data Science** (*Southern Virginia University CSC 333,
upper division computer science course computational data science*) I
developed the curriculum to focus on developing practical skills in data
science using Python. The course covers data cleaning, visualization,
and analysis using libraries such as Pandas, Matplotlib, Seaborn, and
some Scikit-learn. The big concept discussed was multiple regression and
how to interpret the results of a regression analysis.

**Mathematical Modeling** (*University of Arizona Math 485, senior level
project-based course mathematical modeling*) I assisted Dr. Joceline
Lega in converting the course to an asynchronous, fully online format.
My principle task was to use Manim (a Python package for programmatic
mathematical animation) to create animation to improve the accessibility
of the interactive video presentations.

# Mentoring {#mentoring .unnumbered}

## Southern Virginia University {#southern-virginia-university-1 .unnumbered}

-   I mentored two undergraduate seniors in their **senior capstone
    projects**.

    -   Caden Eskelsen (Spring 2025, project: *Passive and Active
        Investment: A Look At Mutual Fund Performance*)

    -   Reilly Kartchner (Fall 2023, project: *The Mathematics of Neural
        Networks*)

## Department of Mathematics, University of Arizona {#department-of-mathematics-university-of-arizona-2 .unnumbered}

-   As part of the **UA RTG-REU** 2021 summer program and again in
    summer 2022 (both organized by Dr. Kevin Lin and Dr. Laura Miller),
    I mentored a total of three undergraduate researchers

    -   David Parra

    -   Benjamin Shearer

    -   Darianne Sanchez

-   I mentored three **undergraduate research groups** as part of a
    senior level modeling course.

    -   Spring 2022. Students: Daniel Peck, Aliyah Postell, Marc Bulau,
        Khaled Ali, Katie Fitts

    -   Spring 2020. Students: Sean Raglow, Gordon Downs, Wes Johnson,
        Ryan Lewis

    -   Spring 2018. Students: Haoliang Shi, Xiaoyu Shi, Haozhe Xu,
        Ziwei Yu

-   As part of the **Graduate Student Mentor Program** I mentored three
    students

    -   John Park

    -   Florence Dungan

    -   Jalen Cates

# Service {#service .unnumbered}

-   Curriculum Committee member at Southern Virginia University (2023 -
    present).

-   Graduate representative on the undergraduate committee for the
    University of Arizona Mathematics Department (2022 - 2023).

# Research Interests {#research-interests .unnumbered}

General: Data-driven model reduction, signals and systems theory,
stochastic models and stochastic differential equations, power
distribution systems with renewable energy sources, smart grids, cell
movement, urban traffic.

Current projects: Applying classical signal processing theory to
data-driven model reduction, power spectrum estimation, Model reduction
for power systems networks, and modeling movement of the slime mold
*Dictyostelium discoideum*.

# Publications {#publications .unnumbered}

Jared McBride and Kevin K Lin, *A comparison of spectral estimation
methods for the analysis of chaotic and stochastic dynamical systems*.
In preparation, 2023.

Darin J Law, Jason P Field, Luke A Wilson, Mallory F Barnes, David D
Breshears, Jared McBride, Greg A Barron-Gafford, Angelina
Martínez-Yrízar, Alberto Búrquez, and Enriquena Bustamante Ortega.
*Heatwave compounded warmer drought: Shifts in time to tree mortality
and tree mortality duration.* In preparation, 2023.

# Conferences {#conferences .unnumbered}

**Third Symposium on Machine Learning and Dynamical Systems**, September
26 - 30, 2022, The Fields Institute, Toronto, Canada Presented poster:
*A comparison of spectral estimation methods for the analysis of chaotic
and stochastic dynamical systems*

# Volunteer Community Involvement {#volunteer-community-involvement .unnumbered}

**Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints** Full-time Missionary.
Manchester, England, 2007-2009

**Central Utah STEM Fair** Judge. Provo, Utah, 2014

**ACCESS** (BYU big brother/big sister program) big brother volunteer.
Provo, Utah, 2014

**$\pi$-Day** volunteer. Provo, Utah, 2014-2016

**S.Y.STEM Coalition Science Day** volunteer. Tucson, Arizona, 2016

**S.Y.STEM Coalition Summer Robotics Camp** facilitator assistant.
Tucson, Arizona, 2019

**Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints** recent involvement in
local congregation (ward). Tucson, Arizona,

-   Nursery Leader 2016 - 2017

-   Sunday School leadership 2017 - 2018

-   Men's organization (Elders Quorum) leadership 2018

-   Ward Mission Leader 2018-2019

-   Assistant Ward Clerk (Membership) 2019 - 2023

-   Primary Chorister 2023

# Skills {#skills .unnumbered}

Git, Julia, Python, Manim (Python package for programmatic mathematical
animation).
